string-utils
==========

This small extension enables string sanitization in models and controller.

Contains a workaround for Rails sanitize helper that (as any helper) works only in views, allowing you to call my_text.sanitize also in controllers, models and libs.

Provides also a function for making url friendly strings removing all unwanted characters.

Basically it adds some methods and shortcuts to the String class, see the example section for usage.

Works with Rails ~> 2.3.6 and ~> 3.0.0 beta

Install
=======

Specify it in your Rails project config/environment.rb under the "Rails::Initializer.run do |config|" block

	config.gem 'string-utils', :source => "http://gemcutter.org"

Then install it from the console.

	rake gems:install


Or install manually with:

	sudo gem install string-utils --source http://gemcutter.org


Examples
=======

>> my_unsafe_text.sanitize
Applies the sanitize helper to text.
Works not only in views but also in models, controllers and libs!

>> my_unsafe_text.san
Shortcut for my_unsafe_text.sanitize

>> "Fire in the hole: <script>alert('bam!');</script>".san
=> "Fire in the hole: "

>> "Some tags: <asdasd>an asdasd tag</adsasd>".san
=> "Some tags: an asdasd tag"

>> my_SAFE_text.hs
Shortcut for my_SAFE_text.html_safe
USE WITH CAUTION
Forces the string to be html safe so it won't be escaped.
Useful for quick-and-dirty monkey scripting in views.

>> message = "I really need this <script>alert('popup')</script>".hs
=> "I really need this <script>alert('popup')</script>"
>> message.html_safe?
=> true


"My really great post".urlify
=> "my-really-great-post"

"O come l'è GANZA 'sta gemma!".urlify
=> "o-come-l-e-ganza-sta-gemma"





Copyright (c) 2010 Silvio Relli, released under the MIT license